Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to learn about inverse Kenneth Mattox.
Now despite the lamp looking like it's having a bad time actually going through itself you can see the
possibilities here are pretty awesome.
It's going to enable us to move our lamp pretty naturally if we want it to lean forward and have a look
at something.
You can see the rest of the mechanism goes with it.
However there is a downside to this.
And as you can see when we're moving this is actually pushing geometry through itself even though we've
set up some constraints to try and prevent that.
Now of course as we go through this we'll learn how to constrain it even further so that doesn't happen.
But this is a pretty cool start that you agree Mr. lamp.
Yep.
Let's go find out some more okay.
So we're back over with our lamp and what we will do is we will start setting up our lamp so that we
can use inverse Kenneth Mattox.
There are a couple of things that are important.
You can only set inverse cinematics whilst were imposed mode.
So the first thing we need to do is turn back on our armature select our armature and then go into pose
mode.
Once we're into pose mode we can open up the side bar with the end key and then go to tool when we're
in the Tools menu.
We've got also i k the moment you put a tick in that box we can go ahead grab that bone and start moving
it around and the rest of the model will follow.
How cool is that.
Pretty awesome right.
There is a problem with this of course.
Let's hide the tall shelf for the moment and that is we're pulling everything else around with it.
So what we can do here is start adding a few constraints to our eye.
Okay first of all if we have a look at the bottom button we can select that and at the moment we only
really want it to rotate left and right so with the bone select if we can go to the bones properties
the screen button over on the right hand side scroll down and there's a section here called inverse
Kana Mattox.
If we open up that we can then go down further and then we can lock its axes.
Now you may be tempted to use the world axes but remember we left these bone axes on for good reason
we left them on so we know that if we wanted to rotate but not tip forward and back according to the
i k we can still tip it forward and back.
That's absolutely fine.
But not through either.
So we can turn that off on the x axis or lucky on the x axis and the same with the z axis.
And what we should now find is when we grab that and move it around look at that nice the rest of the
body is absolutely fine.
Or look around and as we're moving it you may notice that it snaps into different positions.
That's absolutely fine for the moment that's a conflict with our other constraints that we've got applied.
The downside of IPA inverse Kenneth Mattox is that it ignores your existing bone constraints.
So generally you either have forward Ken Mattox at one time or you have inverse Keenum at six.
Now you can switch between the two.
There's no right or wrong way but often is a lot easier if your lamp or your hand or your arm is reaching
out for something.
If we can just get the rest of the model to conform to that movement.
So we get it to reach out and everything else moves with it rather than the other way which should be
moving each individual bone to kind of look right now.
There is one downside one dark side to invest kind of attacks and this is the same with anything that
seems like it's a shortcut.
And that is quite simply that's at some point it won't do what you want it to do and you'll just have
to do it manually anyway.
But what we can now do is we can grab the bottom one we can move it along you can see we can have the
lamp dancing around which is pretty awesome.
And of course you can do lots of other things like that as well once we start getting going.
And I think armed with that knowledge you're ready to constrain the rest of the lamp.
Okay so you're challenged turn on inverse cinematics if you've just been watching.
That's the first thing you need to do after you've done that.
I'd like you to lock the relevant axes to prevent the IAEA moving our mesh objects through themselves.
So at the moment of course if we turn and rotate it is not going to work as expected.
However with a few locking of axes we're going to make sure that works.
Paul's video now and give that to go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now hop on to blender and finish constraining the inverse cinematics on our lamp okay.
So let's have a look at the bones that we've got so far this top bone here has complete free movement.
I think we need it to have that that will give it a lot of dynamic movement.
That's really the face of our character.
And with that we can have it look inquisitive.
We can have it move towards objects but the rest of this needs to be quite rigid because that's the
way it's been made.
It's not a bendy lamp it's got joints in it.
So we need to be respectful to that setup that we've got.
So this top bone here is the x axis.
In fact it's X on all of these by the bottom one.
So let's go ahead.
We need it locked on Y and Z and the same for this bone.
Is that all we need to do.
Well it's.
Go ahead grab this top one and have a look.
Excellent things are moving as we would expect them to.
That is looking pretty useful.
Now the one thing that we've got going on here is the lamp can go through itself and that's going to
cause us a few issues.
So we're happy to look at some finer controls of constraints in a few moments but to be honest that
is pretty much spot on.
I'm not sure which way round our lamp is at the moment but remember at any point we can go all tar algae
and it will put things back to how they were previously.
So there we go.
That's a quick way of resetting everything.
Of course you can set everything to the rest mode if you want to but with everything selected we're
really focused on rotations so we can rotate the top round.
So our lamp can look what is there around here and of course if you want to have a bit more fun you
can turn it onto Look Dev mode and under this dropdown we can use the scene lights and the scene world
which will make us a lot darker but then we can do this sort of real time almost eevee like movement
which is pretty awesome in itself.
But if we need to we can also switch over to cycles to see how it's actually looking and I think this
is coming along really really well.
And if you really want to have a bit more fun we can click whilst we've got this top one selected we
can click to turn off our overlays and then we can still have it look around our scene which is pretty
awesome.
Okay.
How are you guys getting on really looking forward to seeing your lamps coming alive.
Now if you have the capability of recording a little video of what you're getting up to it would be
brilliant to see how your lamps are coming together at the moment.
We're looking at rendering this out as an animation but we'll have to learn about that in a few lectures
time.
I'm really liking how this is coming on.
Please share your lamps over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.